Projects versus operations.
I'll list some attributes about projects on the left,
and attributes about operations on the right.
But first, let me ask this question: what does management really care about?
I will suggest to you, it's mostly about projects,
not operations that management tends to really care about.
Okay, let's get started.
Projects tend to propel a company forward,
new ideas, new features, new products.
That's why management has the focus on those,
because they're leading the company.
May drive new revenues, new services, new cost containment,
and maybe even drive improved customer service.
These are all very critical things that management
and executives tend to focus on.
On the other side are operations.
And as I mentioned,
these are activities involved in the day-to-day functions of the business,
conducted for the purpose of running the business.
You might think of it as keeping the lights on,
or maybe even like a utility, who cares if all is well?
Think about yourself for a moment, are you on any projects?
Or are you strictly operations?
Maybe you are not sure.
If you are not sure if you are on projects or not,
don't fret, it may have nothing to do with you.
It may be that you have a management or leadership issue in your
company from the standpoint of effective communication,
or possibly a weak project management structure or process.
I think there should be a very,
very clear delineation of project work from operations work,
so you can in fact focus on the right work.
This will enable the attention required to get stuff done.
So let me share with you this great quote on the next slide.
Okay, so to bring this point home, here is a good quote.
Operations keeps the lights one,
strategy provides a light at the end of the tunnel,
but project management is the train engine that moves the organization forward.
So if you are looking for excitement,
being in the spotlight of driving a company or organization forward,
then project management is where you want to be.
When is an activity a project?
So when should an activity, the things you do every day, be called a project?
Each company or organization will have different thresholds,
criteria, as to what is a project versus an activity,
say an operations activity.
So here are some threshold examples.
If a major activity has, say, a lot of dollars,
or a lot of hours, a lot of time, it may be considered then a project.
Rather than just a few hours, maybe to fix a screen,
or add a column to a database table, things like that,
adding mobile to a web app,
that might be a significant amount of dollars and time,
and therefore,
a company may call that a project because it exceeds an agreed upon threshold.
Another threshold may be criticality or focus to the business.
It may not be so much a size issue,
but so critically important that management wants to keep
a really keen focus on that activity, and therefore,
that activity becomes a project.
There's also the project request process.
This process is a way in which project ideas and proposals can be put forward.
Also, a project review process.
This is usually a key manager, a review board,
or a team, that will review each project request,
then, determine its viability, approve or disapprove,
and if approve, begin the project.
So this review process is basically vetting,
and then approving or disapproving a particular project that may be a candidate.
For context,
this course focuses on the project management
process after the project is approved.
In summary, a project is a significant level of effort involving a team,
and consuming significant resources that management
typically approves on a case by case basis.
And,
each company organization will have different thresholds as to
an activity is deemed to be a project or not. Now let's focus on you, the project manager, in the next few slides.